Come back let's install rattus onto our laptop or computers in order to actually use it and test some
commands.
Now keep in mind when it comes to databases most of the time you won't actually be running from your
computer.
In most cases it's going to be on a server or another machine that is just dedicated to that database.
And we're going to be doing the same for Radice but because we want to test it out make sure that we
know the commands and we can run it locally as well.
It's good to practice the skills now in order to download it.
It's very very simple.
We simply go to their download tab
and we see here that they have daquiri images as well which we might use later on.
Hint hint.
But for now we're going to get the stable version 4.0 and you can click download here or if he keeps
scrolling down you see that you have some commands that you can use to get it.
So you have two options.
You can either just click on the download link that is appear which will download a file as you can
see over here.
And with that fall you can actually just open it and then run these commands.
But for now just because we have these available to us I'm going to run the commands.
So the first one is to get this thing that will get us Radice installed.
So let's open up a terminal here and run the command.
You see that it's installing and wants their son.
We have to open it up with the tar command and then finally we get CD now into the red S 4.0 0.9.
You might have different version as long as it's above 4.0 you should be fine.
And this folder was created for us so let's just go in there.
I'm want to clear.
And then we see that the final command that we need is make which executes something called the Makefile.
So let's do that.
And this is going to be running to set everything up for us if we go back to the documentation.
We see that the only thing we can do now is to run the source Retta server that is to run the red a
server just like we did with postscripts to make sure that the Postgres server is running and sprawling
and we are running on some port and then we can run the red S C like command to actually have access
to this database and run some rattus commands.
So let's open up let's minimize this and go back and.
All right.
We see that everything has been loaded.
It gives us a suggestion to run make test to make sure that everything has been installed correctly.
And it all run through some tests here.
I'm not going to go through that just because I trust that everything was said but it's always good
to run make test.
All right so here you see that we've downloaded the tar file we've opened it into the Radice folder
and now I'm inside of this folder of a nice background today.
For any of those wondering where I'm getting these backgrounds from.
Why have this desktop app called Art Pipp that has a different painting every day which is nice.
Anyway back to what we're doing I can go over here and type source remember just like the documentation
suggested.
Read s server to start the server for Precentor.
You'll see that it asks on my computer if they have if I can give access so that it accepts incoming
network connections I'll allow it.
And you see that we're now ready to accept connections and it gives you a nice little graphic here too
that you can see.
All right.
I'm going to move this on this side.
So the servers running now and I'm going to open up another window and with this one we're going to
run the CLID.
I'm going to say source for I have to go into the reddest folder and then run source rattus see a lot.
And there we go.
We're connected to this server and we can start running some Radice commands.
And the next video we're going to learn some of these commands and how we can actually enter data into
our rattus server.
I'll see one.